OK we're gonna do a milestone 17 where we're trying to get the crab end to end sensors work with the the 0.3 MCU boards we need to use the 12 motors we got from sunline or zing woo i think. OK. The first phase is. Taking the new V 0.3 MCU boards and the three Arduino Shields and plugging the 12 motors in and that validating that we can communicate. Utilize all 12 motors through the. Gooey and crabby MCU. We should also be able to see the linear actuator. Potentiometer values and Oregon Hall encoder values depending on the mode. That is essentially a test. 1. Task one. As part of task one, we know there is a problem where the primary shield cannot communicate reliably with the secondary left and right Shields and so the debugging needs to be done on that to figure out why that communication is not working. In order to do that debugging. The developer will need to identify. Where the failure is occurring, it seems most likely that either the boards are not synchronizing with each other or. That the primary is receiving the commands and resending them, but not resending them correctly to the secondary boards and the secondary boards are not picking them up. An additional part of that task is to fix the firmware. So that the selection of the roll is saved to the E prom instead. Of automatically determined and that the. EPROM setting. Sorry, I think a better way to do it would be to be whatever USB you plug into, you set it as the primary. Then. The unconfigured secondary boards. You should be able to send a command to them to retrieve the follower state and. The primary should be able to send that command, get the follower state back. And additionally send a command to change follower state. And so the primary can then set one of the boards. To the left follower and the other board to the right follower. And that is the conclusion of task. One is being able to set those follower states, see those commands be omitted and returns retrieve the follower states. And oh, additionally you should be able to set. It should really be called not set follower state, but set board config. And you should also be able to set a serial number on each of those boards. And you should be able to retrieve the board version through that as well. This will become important in a later task where we save the per motor. Calibration settings to the EPROM. 

OK. Now we're going to do task two. In task two. We need to validate the Hall encoders versus the. Linear potentiometers. The linear potentiometers return a total voltage value between 0 and 123 generally. Depending on the position of the motor. Usually they stop though at somewhere between 200 on one side and 800 on the other side, and it's different for every motor by a slight amount. Those ones we don't really need to worry about other than to confirm that. The values are the the low and high side values are correct and to check with all available motors we have that have linear potentiometers and see if they all have. High as extended and low as retracted or vice versa. If they don't have that. Then. We need to. During calibration. Implement a function that flips the values. And detects when you do. At first it should do a small. Extension and it should see the value getting larger. If it does an extension, it sees about getting larger. It should. Do nothing if it sees it getting smaller, it needs to save to the EE prom estate that says. Flip values. And then it should just umm. When it's retrieving the. Potentiometer state. Via the fetch position function or whatever it's called, it should. Ah. I guess subtract it from 1023 I believe. The haul encoders are harder. Because the hall encoders just give you like a quaternion cycle. Every time they tick. And so you have to read. The A channel and B channels. And then I believe you need to do some like. Mass on them. To understand. And track each cycle as it turns. And so in that case you're essentially just counting how many cycles there are from the start position to the end position. And so, umm, the way to test this is to. Extend the motor fully until it stops. I guess retract the motor fully until it stops. Then extend it. Make that the zero value. Then extend it fully. That happens. And make that 123. A 1023. And then repeat that maybe twice. To understand. If it's. Always the same and it doesn't kind of drift. It shouldn't. It should be impossible for it to drift, but just double check it. And then save that to the EPROM state. For the calibration. Oh, on the linear actuator side, the one thing it does need to do is once it's. Hit the minimum stop and the Max stop. It needs to translate those linearly to zero to 123 values. So task two is all about. Defining the min and Max stop functions and EPROM settings for an individual motor. And so you're doing a calibration on an individual joint function. And having it move all the way to its minimum record, its end stop to its maximum record, its end stop, and then providing the translation to make it translate from. It's. Absolute position to a normalized position. Value that's between zero and 1023. I guess I should also state that we maybe want to. Change this so that it's a floating point between zero and 1.0. I think that's better because that's more in line with what the model would input. 

OK now task three. We need to have the motors be able to go through. Their calibration sequence. So the. Crabby MCU should be able to receive a calibrate command. For each motor. And be able to roll those up into calibrating the entire robot. The way the robot should calibrate. Is that it should take. The back left leg. And it should fully retract the. Hip actuator. Until it stops and that is the bottom. 0 value for the hip actuators, potentiometer and or encoder that is safe to the epromp. Then it should attempt to retract the knee so that the tibia points effectively straight up and again save the minimum state for the knee. Then it should point the knee downward. Going to the end until the knee stops. This will elevate the back left of the robot slightly and cause the foot to slide across the floor. Because the tibia is longer than the femur. That is OK. Then. Calibration should. Recognize. This and not pause until the knee actuator reaches a fully extended position in the linear and the potentiometer or haul encoder stop moving forward. At that point, it should repeat that same motion. By extending. The. Hip while keeping the knee retracted that will cause the tibia to. Pull underneath the body while the hip is extended and it will be standing on its knee. Once it cannot move any further, it will record the end position of the hip. Now at this point the start and end positions of the hip and the knee are both properly configured. At this point it should repeat. OK before it does. The Nina extension while the hip and knee are pointed straight up in the air. It should also check the rotation of the hip. So it should attempt to rotate the hip all the way left until. The hip cannot travel any further, at which point it should stop and record that position. And then it should do the same thing but move to the right and then record the end position. After that you can then retract, extend the knee and extend the hip to get the final two positions for that leg. Now. Now the leg should then retract itself fully again against the body and turn to be facing away from the center leg, so towards the left. It should then repeat this process on the second leg. The front left leg this time. And move it to the right and then repeat it on the middle and then do the same thing on the right side of the body. After that it should put its pose into the starting pose which is the tibias are. Parallel to the floor? Perpendicular to the floor. Sorry, and the femurs are parallel to the floor. Which is roughly halfway through each. Of their. Lydia potential positions? All of these values, six values per actuator, should be saved to. The E prom. OK on task three. A key thing to keep in mind is you should reuse the same single motor. Calibration function that records the min and Max stops and does the normalization transfer and saves to the E problem. And really the whole point of test three is to do all the joints in a way that they're not going to end up colliding or otherwise impacting each other during the movement. And that the robot isn't going to damage itself or the floor each time it moves one of its legs in order to attempt to calibrate. The riskiest portion of this? Is the first leg calibrating? Because. Holding up. The entire left half of the body, while the other legs are in some unknown joint state. And so it has some risk that. It could OverDrive and damage the especially the hip. As it's attempting to lift the body off the ground. Think hard about a good way to do that. Probably the easiest way to handle that is just to make sure that the robot is in a good starting position. Using the manual joystick. The ideal starting position would be the. Passive 90 degree starting position. Where the tibia is perpendicular to the ground and the femur is parallel for all six joints. 

OK Next is Task 4. At this point the robot is fully calibrated for its min and Max stop positions on all. Eighteen actuators and it has stored the translation. For Holland Coder and Oregon Linear Potentiometer for all the positions. We also now need to validate that the current sense is. Properly functioning. During this step of the calibration, the. Robot will go into the starting pose. And then one leg will. Lift up its hip. And we should see the current sense go to effectively 0. Then it should attempt to push that one leg so that it. Lifts the entire left side of the body, just on that one leg. Only maybe an inch or two. And we should see the current sense spike. It technically has a value between zero and 123, but typically I only see it spike to maybe a value of two to eight out of 123 because the motors are so powerful and dampened by the screw actuation. It should do that on all 6. And confirm that the current sensors are returning some values. It should not attempt to normalize them because the current sense values will spike much higher when there is a weight on the robot. If there are any errors. In that calibration. The calibration should return a Jason that contains a list of the actuators that were not able to be calibrated correctly. And the reason code for each of those actuators. Incorrect calibration. I think there are only. A couple of reason codes. Such as you know value is missing or value is unexpected. The crabby MCU should then translate those recent codes. Sorry, the MCU SDK. Should translate the region codes. And then. Spit out directions for what the user doing the calibration is supposed to do to fix it. Typically the fix is. Check. Wiring. On. Current sense. Or check encoder wiring or check potentiometer wiring. Or if. It couldn't move the motor at all, it would just be checked motor power wiring. 

OK Now we're on to the final Test task 5. We need to double check that the values. For current sense motor position and joint commands. Extend and retract. Are being properly sent and received by the parkour model interface through the how translation layer. So in this step you just need to launch the default image. On the Orange. With the how so that the model is sending the commands through the HAL instead of the controller and then? It should be receiving the commands from the HAL. Sorry, receiving the telemetry from the how? At that point, validate. What the model expects the min and Max values to be? And inside the house translation function mapping function. Map from the crabby MCDK values. Which are zero to one for motor position. And zero to one for. Current sense. Which is the equivalent of a foot touch or whatever. I don't know what it is in the model, but there's some. Conceptual thing for the foot is touching the ground. And map those values. Into the model. At this point, also write down any missing values. Oh, one more value that needs to get mapped is the IMU from the Z camera needs to get mapped. This does not come through the crabby MCU SDK. It comes through the Z to HAL interface. So add the IMU. Status information off of the camera. Make sure it comes through the howl and then in the mapping function feed it into the. More. Into the model. At this point. We should have all of the telemetry needed going into the model, but also at this point double check if there is any missing telemetry values that the Isaac Sims simulation gets that the. Real simulation does not. The final Test at this point is to run the image on the orange and see that the orange attempts to move the motors. Umm, essentially randomly at this point. 

This will lead into the next milestone, which is milestone 15. Where we will. Start to tweak the. Configuration. And retrain the model based on the real semantics of the robot instead of. The simulated semantics of the robot and attempt to get those to match. We will also start to introduce domain randomization and a few other features of the model to get a real transferred walking pose.The reason why this milestone is important is that we need to be able to trust. That the robot is properly calibrated and that the values for the joint absolute position current sensing. IMU and. Joint commands actually do what they're supposed to do. So that when we are training the model and doing the SIM to real transfer, we are confident that it works as is expected. 

